src/pages/index.md, before:

---
title: Home
sections:
  - section_id: hero
    type: section_hero
    image: images/hero.png
    image_alt: App preview
    title: DOT Validators Alliance
    content: "We are a group of community leaders who decided to dedicate their professional lives to the Polkadot and its diverse ecosystem.\_\n\n"
    actions:
      - label: Learn More
        url: /features
        style: primary
      - label: Check our validators
        url: lorem-ipsum
        style: link
        has_icon: false
        icon: arrow-left
        icon_position: left
        new_window: false
        no_follow: false
        type: action
  - section_id: features
    type: section_features
    background: gray
    title: Features
    subtitle: >-
      Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Nullam a metus
      quis lorem malesuada luctus.
    features:
      - title: The Best Feature of Your Services
        image: images/feature1.png
        image_alt: App preview on a phone and tablet
        content: >-
          Nam pulvinar ante eu ultricies volutpat. Aenean hendrerit, eros sed
          aliquet luctus, lorem risus volutpat dolor, nec dignissim diam neque
          consequat ex.
        actions:
          - label: Learn More
            url: /features
            style: secondary
            has_icon: true
            icon: arrow-right
            icon_position: right
      - title: Awesome Feature of Your Services
        image: images/feature2.png
        image_alt: App users welcoming a new member
        content: >-
          Etiam vel urna sed massa egestas vulputate eu a velit. Sed ut nisl nec
          sapien interdum luctus. Cras rhoncus condimentum metus sit amet
          auctor.
        actions:
          - label: Learn More
            url: /features
            style: secondary
            has_icon: true
            icon: arrow-right
            icon_position: right
      - title: Cool Feature of Your Services
        image: images/feature3.png
        image_alt: App user profile preview
        content: >-
          In ante enim, lobortis quis congue vel, finibus sit amet mi. Aenean
          quis venenatis sem. Proin eget massa id metus eleifend maximus sit
          amet nec urna.
        actions:
          - label: Learn More
            url: /features
            style: secondary
            has_icon: true
            icon: arrow-right
            icon_position: right
  - section_id: reviews
    type: section_reviews
    background: white
    title: About Us
    subtitle: >-
      We aim to unite the biggest and most prominent Polkadot communities in
      order to support their healthy growth and the decentralization of the
      network.
    reviews:
      - author: Polkadotters
        avatar: images/review1.jpg
        avatar_alt: Eric Widget's photo
        content: >-
          Hi, I am Petr and I started the Polkadotters community with my
          colleague Pavel. We are really pleased to be a part of this initiative
          because we believe that the community should be the one with power
          over the network!
      - author: PromoTeam
        avatar: images/review2.jpg
        avatar_alt: Parsley Montana's photo
        content: >-
          Sed laoreet magna commodo libero euismod sodales. Nunc ac libero
          convallis, interdum ligula vel, pretium diam. Integer commodo sem at
          dui sollicitudin, vel posuere justo laoreet.
      - author: Repe
        avatar: images/review3.jpg
        avatar_alt: Jonquil Von Haggerston's photo
        content: >-
          Integer consectetur purus neque, ac porttitor enim convallis vitae.
          Interdum et malesuada fames ac ante ipsum primis in faucibus.
  - section_id: call-to-action
    type: section_cta
    title: This Is Call To Action Block!
    subtitle: This is an optional description for the call to action block.
    actions:
      - label: Get Started
        url: /signup
        style: primary
  - section_id: recent-posts
    type: section_posts
    background: gray
    title: Latest Posts
seo:
  title: Stackbit Azimuth Theme
  description: The preview of the Azimuth theme
  extra:
    - name: 'og:type'
      value: website
      keyName: property
    - name: 'og:title'
      value: Stackbit Azimuth Theme
      keyName: property
    - name: 'og:description'
      value: The preview of the Azimuth theme
      keyName: property
    - name: 'og:image'
      value: images/hero.png
      keyName: property
      relativeUrl: true
    - name: 'twitter:card'
      value: summary_large_image
    - name: 'twitter:title'
      value: Stackbit Azimuth Theme
    - name: 'twitter:description'
      value: The preview of the Azimuth theme
    - name: 'twitter:image'
      value: images/hero.png
      relativeUrl: true
template: landing
---

Commit message:

index.md: Multiple updates: * updated reviews in sections * updated content in reviews * updated content in reviews * updated content in reviews

src/pages/index.md, after:

---
title: Home
sections:
  - section_id: hero
    type: section_hero
    image: images/hero.png
    image_alt: App preview
    title: DOT Validators Alliance
    content: "We are a group of community leaders who decided to dedicate their professional lives to the Polkadot and its diverse ecosystem.\_\n\n"
    actions:
      - label: Learn More
        url: /features
        style: primary
      - label: Check our validators
        url: lorem-ipsum
        style: link
        has_icon: false
        icon: arrow-left
        icon_position: left
        new_window: false
        no_follow: false
        type: action
  - section_id: features
    type: section_features
    background: gray
    title: Features
    subtitle: >-
      Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Nullam a metus
      quis lorem malesuada luctus.
    features:
      - title: The Best Feature of Your Services
        image: images/feature1.png
        image_alt: App preview on a phone and tablet
        content: >-
          Nam pulvinar ante eu ultricies volutpat. Aenean hendrerit, eros sed
          aliquet luctus, lorem risus volutpat dolor, nec dignissim diam neque
          consequat ex.
        actions:
          - label: Learn More
            url: /features
            style: secondary
            has_icon: true
            icon: arrow-right
            icon_position: right
      - title: Awesome Feature of Your Services
        image: images/feature2.png
        image_alt: App users welcoming a new member
        content: >-
          Etiam vel urna sed massa egestas vulputate eu a velit. Sed ut nisl nec
          sapien interdum luctus. Cras rhoncus condimentum metus sit amet
          auctor.
        actions:
          - label: Learn More
            url: /features
            style: secondary
            has_icon: true
            icon: arrow-right
            icon_position: right
      - title: Cool Feature of Your Services
        image: images/feature3.png
        image_alt: App user profile preview
        content: >-
          In ante enim, lobortis quis congue vel, finibus sit amet mi. Aenean
          quis venenatis sem. Proin eget massa id metus eleifend maximus sit
          amet nec urna.
        actions:
          - label: Learn More
            url: /features
            style: secondary
            has_icon: true
            icon: arrow-right
            icon_position: right
  - section_id: reviews
    type: section_reviews
    background: white
    title: About Us
    subtitle: >-
      We aim to unite the biggest and most prominent Polkadot communities in
      order to support their healthy growth and the decentralization of the
      network.
    reviews:
      - author: Polkadotters
        avatar: images/review1.jpg
        avatar_alt: Eric Widget's photo
        content: >-
          Hi, I am Petr and I started the Polkadotters community with my
          colleague Pavel. We are from Czechia, a small country in the heart of
          Europe. We are really pleased to be a part of this initiative because
          we believe that the community should be the one with power over the
          network!
      - author: PromoTeam
        avatar: images/review2.jpg
        avatar_alt: Parsley Montana's photo
        content: >-
          At PromoTeam we believe that validation is a philosophical
          contribution. Acting as your voice in the network and means of
          collaborating with the community. We believe that the validation role
          goes beyond just producing blocks and have constant uptime.
      - author: Repe
        avatar: images/review3.jpg
        avatar_alt: Jonquil Von Haggerston's photo
        content: >-
          As a developer, I often like to look "under the hood". Polkadot is
          said to be a bet against blockchain maximalism, that’s why we united
          independent community-led initiatives around the world under one
          Alliance, so let’s jump on this exciting journey together!
      - author: lorem-ipsum
        avatar_alt: lorem-ipsum
        content: >-
          Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit, sed do
          eiusmod tempor incididunt ut labore et dolore magna aliqua.
        type: review_item
  - section_id: call-to-action
    type: section_cta
    title: This Is Call To Action Block!
    subtitle: This is an optional description for the call to action block.
    actions:
      - label: Get Started
        url: /signup
        style: primary
  - section_id: recent-posts
    type: section_posts
    background: gray
    title: Latest Posts
seo:
  title: Stackbit Azimuth Theme
  description: The preview of the Azimuth theme
  extra:
    - name: 'og:type'
      value: website
      keyName: property
    - name: 'og:title'
      value: Stackbit Azimuth Theme
      keyName: property
    - name: 'og:description'
      value: The preview of the Azimuth theme
      keyName: property
    - name: 'og:image'
      value: images/hero.png
      keyName: property
      relativeUrl: true
    - name: 'twitter:card'
      value: summary_large_image
    - name: 'twitter:title'
      value: Stackbit Azimuth Theme
    - name: 'twitter:description'
      value: The preview of the Azimuth theme
    - name: 'twitter:image'
      value: images/hero.png
      relativeUrl: true
template: landing
---
